#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass beavtexchapter
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 1
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 30mm
\topmargin 35mm
\rightmargin 30mm
\bottommargin 35mm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

Introduction
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 (the Beaver's LaTeX) is a LaTeX class designed specifically to format theses
 and dissertations at Oregon State University.
 It was created almost completely from the ground up as a fully functional
 LaTeX class.
 The original class was found to be inadequate, as it was mainly a complex
 set of templates and files and borrowed classes from other universities
 that was very hard to use.
 Many intrepid explorers tried to fix it bit by bit and send it to others
 in an improved form.
 I decided to essentially scrap everything and start from scratch, borrowing
 specific macros and definitions (mostly from the Table of Contents down,
 in the source file).
\layout Standard

This chapter introduces 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 and gives some hints on installation.
 The following chapters detail 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtexnospace
\end_inset 

 's commands/internals, and introduce using 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 in LyX.
 I hope you enjoy using 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

, and find that it helps you in writing your thesis.
 Please send me any ideas you may have about improving it.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top bigskip \noindent 
--John Metta
\layout Standard
\noindent 

\family typewriter 
<john.pennington@lifetime.oregonstate.edu>
\layout Section

LaTeX and LyX
\layout Standard

Some quick information first, for those who may not be aware.
 LaTeX has a graphical front-end called LyX.
 Depending on your field of study, learning LaTeX may be a good idea; however,
 it's quite possible to get along with LyX without knowing a great deal
 of LaTeX.
\layout Subsection

Getting and Learning LaTeX
\layout Standard

If you are reading this, you are either aware of, or curious about, the
 beauty of using LaTeX to format documents.
 For windows users who may have gotten a hold of this document and want
 to try LaTeX, the distribution you should look for is called MiKTeX.
 
\emph on 
MiKTeX is Free.
\layout Standard

My suggestion, for those who are not total LaTeX gurus, is to get a copy
 of the User's Guide by\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \citet{lamport.94:LaTeX}

\end_inset 

.
 It is a fast reference for nearly all of the commands you will need in
 your day-to-day LaTeX life.
 Another source, for those who want to learn TeX programming, is The 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
TeX{}
\end_inset 

book\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \citep{knuth.84:TeXbook}

\end_inset 

.
 It is the definitive guide to TeX as a programming language.
\layout Subsection

Using LaTeX Without Learning It
\layout Standard

Even if you know LaTeX, you may not be aware of LyX (
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
texttt{http://www.lyx.org}
\end_inset 

).
 LyX is a graphical user interface to LaTeX.
 If you are a Micro$oft user, think of it as a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Word for LaTeX
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 It's available for Linux, Mac and Windows, and makes using LaTeX possible,
 and even easy, without knowing anything about LaTeX programming.
\layout Standard

For those who are LaTeX hackers, it basically makes your life a lot easier,
 because you can use it as a front end, but also have the ability to add
 LaTeX code whereever/whenever you want.
 LyX will not get in your way.
\layout Standard

LyX is essentially the only thing I use to write with, since everything
 can be done in it.
 It's a wonderful thing, but I'm probably biased.
 In any case, if you are not using LyX, I suggest you look into it.
\layout Section

Installing 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

I've decided not to distribute 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 in the standard CTAN manner, mainly because it will be provided specifically
 to students at OSU, and all others would find it essentially useless but
 for the possibility of using it to build another class.
 
\layout Standard

This source distribution includes 4 folders: 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
archive
\family default 
 This folder is a collection of various versions and assorted files of the
 original osuthesis class.
 These are provided, in no particular organizational structure, mainly to
 satisfy the curiosity of TeX/LaTeX hackers.
 You can safely discard this folder.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
documentation
\family default 
 Where the LaTeX version of the documentation, as well as the most recent
 version of the Oregon State Graduate School style guide, resides.
 Do with this what you wish.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
latex
\family default 
 Contains the beavtex folder, copy this folder in its entirety (it contains
 only beavtex.cls) to the appropriate place in your LaTeX distribution.
 After you copy these files, you will have to run texhash as the superuser.
 Windows users should consult their MiKTeX documentation to see about installing
 classes.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 
lyx
\family default 
 Contains the LyX layout definitions.
 
\family typewriter 
beavtexchapter.layout
\family default 
 is the layout used for individual chapters and sections.
 
\family typewriter 
beavtexmaster.layout
\family default 
 is the main file layout.
 Copy these layout files to the layouts folder of your LyX program.
 Run LyX, go to 
\family sans 
\bar under 
E
\bar default 
dit\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Reconfigure,
\family default 
 then restart LyX.
\layout Standard

That should do it.
 With this little effort, you'll be on your way to spending time writing
 your thesis, rather than formatting it.
\layout Section

Documentation as Example
\layout Standard

You can use 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtexnospace
\end_inset 

 's documentation as an example of how to build a thesis.
 One way is to look into the LaTeX file 
\family typewriter 
beavtex.tex
\family default 
.
 This is the main file for the documentation, and includes the other files
 so that you can see how to include individual chapters as seperate files.
 The other way is to use LyX and open the file 
\family typewriter 
beavtex.lyx
\family default 
.
 The thesis was actually written using LyX, and exported into LaTeX and
 PDF formats from there.
\layout Subsection

Typesetting the Name
\layout Standard

You can typeset the name 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 within your document by using the LaTeX command 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
beavtex
\family default 
.
 This will automatically insert a trailing space, so if you want to say
 something like 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtexnospace
\end_inset 

 's cool layout options rule,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 use the nospace version as so
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
beavtexnospace 's cool layout options rule
\layout Standard

Honestly, this is only available for purely egotistical reasons.
 I mean, there's absolutely no reason that you would 
\emph on 
need
\emph default 
 this functionality, unless you were going to use it to acknowledge 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 as\SpecialChar \ldots{}
say\SpecialChar \ldots{}
the single most important thing you've used to complete your thesis.
\layout Comment


\begin_inset LatexCommand \BibTeX[jawra]{bibfile}

\end_inset 


\the_end
