#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass beavtexmaster
\begin_preamble
\depthead{Head}
\depttype{College}
\dedpagecenter
\ackpageclear
\abspageclear
\depthoftoc{3}
\chapword{\beavtex Chapter}
\end_preamble
\options 11pt
\language american
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 1
\use_natbib 1
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 30mm
\topmargin 35mm
\rightmargin 30mm
\bottommargin 35mm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 4
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

: Overview and Documentation of the Oregon State University LaTeX
\layout Second Title

Class and LyX Layouts
\layout Author

John W.
 Metta
\layout Degree

Masters of Science
\layout Document Type

Thesis
\layout Major

LaTeX Hackineering
\layout Second Major

LyX Documentation
\layout Department

TeX/LaTeX Engineering
\layout Second Department

LyX--ology
\layout Advisor

Donald K.
 Nuth
\layout Coadvisor

Leslie A.
 Aamport
\layout Abstract


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 is a replacement for the old osuthesis class.
 It is both a LaTeX class and set of LyX layout files that allow the user
 to quickly and painlessly format a thesis according to the requirements
 of the Oregon State University Graduate School.
 Most, if not all, formatting requirements are automagically prepared.
 It was created from the ground up, with some input from a historical set
 of files and macros, both from OSU and external sources.
 This fake thesis serves both as an example and as documentation.
 It contains full documentation on all of 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtexnospace
\end_inset 

 's options, as well as on the LyX layout files.
\layout Acknowledgements

This page is mostly here to demonstrate one of the pretext pages.
 However, there 
\emph on 
are
\emph default 
 a lot of people who deserve some credit for making the earlier incarnations
 of the osuthesis class possible.
 Unfortunately, I don't even know who they all are.
 I've gathered what names I could that were sprinkled around various source
 files to the original osuthesis class.
 One of the template files that I found acknowledges Dr.
 Gregg Rothermel of the Oregon State University Software Engineering Group,
 but states that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

most of the credit for the real work in creating [one of the original versions],
 however, belongs to Lixin Li and Chengyun Chu.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 That file also states that it was modified by Alexey G.
 Malishevsky.
 I got these templates from Eric Altendorf, who in turn got them from Rogan
 Creswick, whence he got them, I don't know.
 Both Eric and Rogan apparently did a lot of work on what were a large number
 of templates and macros.
 Both of those intrepid explorers weeded through code a great deal to leave
 something better and easier for the next users.
 Some of the macros from those original templates are included here and
 have helped build this class--- especially the table of contents formatting,
 which is the main section culled from those original templates.
 Some credit should also also go to Norman Gall of University of Calgary,
 who wrote a .cls file for Rayees Shamsuddin, who in turn sent it to me.
 I didn't actually use any of Norman's code (at least, I don't think I did),
 but the fact that he went through the trouble to create a LaTeX class for
 others to use is deserving of credit.
\layout Dedication

To Donald Knuth and Leslie Lamport.
\newline 
Without them, TeX and LaTeX would never have been possible.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \include{Introduction.lyx}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \include{Using_beavtex.lyx}
preview false

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset Include \include{Using_lyx.lyx}
preview false

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \BibTeX[jawra]{bibfile}

\end_inset 


\the_end
