#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass beavtexchapter
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 1
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 30mm
\topmargin 35mm
\rightmargin 30mm
\bottommargin 35mm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Open

\layout Standard

\backslash 
headingpage{Using 
\backslash 
beavtex }{John W. Metta, Leslie A. Aamport and Donald K. Nuth}{Journal of 
\backslash 
LaTeX{}
\backslash 
 Fun}{Oregon State University
\backslash 

\backslash 
Corvallis, Oregon}{Vol. 4, Num 5, pp. 234-345}
\end_inset 


\layout Chapter

Using 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The first thing you should notice about 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 is this documentation.
 It is formatted in the manner of a dual masters thesis.
 Even the previous page is a cover page for those who choose manuscript
 style and have published a chapter before presenting their thesis.
 Most (it should be all, but I may have missed some) formatting requirements
 of the Oregon State thesis guide have been taken care of, and the design
 of this documentation is such that many optional requirements are used
 so that you have an example.
\layout Section

Loading the class
\layout Standard

The basic options of 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 are similiar to those in any class, and 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 itself is based on the book class.
 Thus, you can load the class with
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
documentclass[opts]{beavtex}
\layout Standard

and any options that you pass as 
\family typewriter 
opts
\family default 
 and that 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 does not recognize, will go straight on to the book class.
 Thus, if you want to format your thesis to print on both sides of the page,
 you would load the class as
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
documentclass[twoside]{beavtex}
\layout Standard

Since 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 does not recognize the 
\family typewriter 
twoside
\family default 
 option, it will pass to the underlying book class.
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Margins The graduate school requires margins that are 1.5 inch left and 1
 inch elsewhere 
\emph on 
at a minimum
\emph default 
.
 They recommend 1.7 inch left.
 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 natively sets a 1.7 inch left margin, which you can change to 1.5 inch by
 using the option 
\family typewriter 
\noun on 
1.5
\family default 
\noun default 
.
 Regardless of your choice of inner margin, 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 will set your outer margins at 1.1 inch, to assure that your document conforms
 to the graduate school requirements.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Font\SpecialChar ~
Size You may use the options 
\family typewriter 
12pt
\family default 
,
\noun on 
 
\family typewriter 
\noun default 
11pt
\family default 
,
\noun on 
 
\noun default 
and
\noun on 
 
\family typewriter 
\noun default 
10pt
\family default 
 to set the base font size.
 The default is a 12 point font.
 
\layout Standard

As an example, to print on both sides with a 1.5 inch inner margin and an
 11 point font, use:
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
documentclass[twoside,1.5,11pt]{beavtex}
\layout Standard

and the class will load, passing the 
\family typewriter 
twoside
\family default 
 option to the book class.
\layout Section

Basic Commands
\layout Standard

Since 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 was designed to take care of all the pretext page formatting automagically,
 you should only need to give it the basic information.
 All of the following commands should be written as:
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
command{This is what you want printed}
\layout Standard

Most commands have a LyX counterpart in the master layout file (the chapter
 layout file holds no 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 commands) and are noted below.
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Commands with no LyX counterpart can still be used in LyX easily by using
 
\family sans 
Layout\SpecialChar \menuseparator
Document
\family default 
 and adding them to the preamble.
\layout Subsection

Mandatory Commands
\layout Standard

All mandatory commands have LyX counterparts.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
title
\family default 
 This is the title of your thesis.
 If your title is very long, you will be interested in the optional command
 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
twotitle
\family default 
, given below.
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
author
\family default 
 In short, you.
 Do not use the LaTeX 
\family typewriter 
\series bold 
\noun on 

\backslash 
and
\family default 
\series default 
\noun default 
 command.
 Ideally, your thesis should be one author only.
 If you must use more than one author, you can simply type something like:
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
author{U.R.
 Wise and I.M.
 Dumb}
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
major
\family default 
 The official name of your major, such as Geography, or Bioresource Engineering.
 Two majors are allowed (See Sections\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Optional-Commands}

\end_inset 

 and\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Advanced-Options}

\end_inset 

).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
department
\family default 
 The name of your department, such as Geosciences or Bioengineering.
 Two departments are allowed (See Sections\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Optional-Commands}

\end_inset 

 and\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Advanced-Options}

\end_inset 

).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
advisor
\family default 
 The full name (including middle initial) of your advisor.
 Two co-advisors are allowed (See Sections\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Optional-Commands}

\end_inset 

 and\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Advanced-Options}

\end_inset 

).
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
degree
\family default 
 This will be something like 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Masters of Science
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 or 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Doctor of Philosophy
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
doctype
\family default 
 The document type is probably either 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Thesis
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 or 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Dissertation,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 though you may define your own, such as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Project
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 or 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Presentation
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 
\emph on 
(LyX: Document Type)
\emph default 
.
\layout Subsubsection

Default Commands
\layout Standard

These commands are either optional, or are mandatory but have default values
 built in.
 Not all have LyX counterparts.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
abstract
\family default 
 This should be the 
\emph on 
text
\emph default 
 of the abstract only--- the formal stuff is preformatted.
 The abstract is formatted on the first page of the thesis.
 If for some reason, you do not need an abstract, the abstract will still
 be formatted, but you needn't print the first page.
 This page does not get numbered, so will not affect numbering of subsequent
 pages if you discard it.

\emph on 
 (LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
submitdate
\family default 
 The submission date of your thesis.
 This value defaults to 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
today
\family default 
 if it is not present, but you can enter whatever day you wish.
 This is the date printed on the abstract and signature pages.

\emph on 
 (LyX: Submission Date)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
copyrightyear
\family default 
 This is the year of your document's copyright.
 It defaults to the current year (
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
the
\backslash 
year
\family default 
), but can be changed.

\emph on 
 (LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
commencementyear
\family default 
 The year of your commencement.
 Default is the current year.
 
\emph on 
(LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
depthead
\family default 
 This is the title of the head of your department, school, whatever.
 It defaults to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Chair,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 but you can use 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Head,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Dean
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 or whatever you want.
 
\emph on 
(No LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
depttype
\family default 
 This is the type of the department.
 It defaults to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Department,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 but 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

School,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

College,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 etc.
 are sometimes necessary.
 
\emph on 
(No LyX)
\layout Subsection

Optional Commands
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:Optional-Commands}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Some optional reqirements, including some for those who are dual majors.
 Many of these options were used to format this documentation, so that you
 can see how they look.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
twotitle
\family default 
 If your title is long, it will overrun the margin on the abstract page.
 This is a serious TeX problem, that is even mentioned in the TeXbook as
 being difficult at best to solve\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \citep{knuth.84:TeXbook}

\end_inset 

.
 For this reason, you should format your title completely with the 
\family typewriter 
\noun on 

\backslash 

\noun default 
title
\family default 
 command, then view the dvi or pdf file to see where your title should have
 a line break.
 You can then put the portion of your title after the point of a necessary
 linebreak into this command, and it will look fine.
 This does not affect the titlepage or anything else, so if you are not
 formatting an abstract, you needn't worry about using 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
twotitle
\family default 
.
 (
\emph on 
LyX: Second Title)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
coadvisor
\family default 
 Your co-advisor, or your second advisor if you are a dual/double major.
 (
\emph on 
LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
twomajor
\family default 
 This is your second major if you are a dual/double major.
 (
\emph on 
LyX: Second Major)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
twodepartment
\family default 
 Likewise for your department.
 (
\emph on 
LyX: Second Department)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
twodepthead
\family default 
 The title of the head of your second department.
 (
\emph on 
No LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
twodepttype
\family default 
 The type of your second department.
 (
\emph on 
No LyX)
\layout Subsubsection

Optional pages
\layout Standard

The following pages only print if you use the commands.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
acknowledgements
\family default 
 These are your acknowledgements usually in paragraph form, but formatted
 however you like.
 (
\emph on 
LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
preface
\family default 
 Your preface.
 (
\emph on 
LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
dedication
\family default 
 Your dedications page.
 (
\emph on 
LyX)
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
contributors
\family default 
 For manuscript format, these are the contributions of other workers/authors.
 (
\emph on 
LyX)
\layout Section

Advanced Options
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Advanced-Options}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

There are many small things that can be different from project to project,
 and thus much that is unique to each thesis/dissertation.
 I've tried to capture all that I found here.
 Those that are not here, you may have to add yourself or contact me and
 I can probably add them.
 
\emph on 
None of these commands have LyX counterparts, all of them must go into the
 preamble.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
chapword
\family default 
 This is the name (not the title) of all chapters.
 It defaults to blank, which will just print a chapter number.
 For an example, this document uses the command
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
chapword{
\backslash 
beavtex Chapter}
\layout Standard

so that you can see what it looks like to change the word.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
chapheadsep
\family default 
 This is a field which separates the chapter number and the chapter title.
 It defaults to a space and a double hyphen as in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Chapter 1 -- Some Title,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 but you can choose to make this a single period with
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
chapheadsep{.}
\layout Standard

which would read 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Chapter 1.
 Some Title.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 unless 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
chapword
\family default 
 is not defined, in which case it would read 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

1.
 Some Title.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
nopretext
\family default 
 Often, during the writing of your thesis, you may want to check out how
 the formatting looks or proof-read it as a document.
 For this, it may be cumbersome to print all of the pretext pages only to
 ignore them and have to scroll past them to get to your thesis.
 using the option
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
nopretext{}
\layout Standard

will force LaTeX to ignore all of the pages that come before your table
 of contents.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
depthoftoc
\family default 
 This controls how many levels of sections and subsections are listed in
 the Table of Contents.
 The number defines levels 
\emph on 
below
\emph default 
 the chapter level.
 It defaults to 2, meaning that sections and subsections will be listed
 in the TOC.
 If you want, for instance, subsubsection and paragraph headings, you would
 use
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
depthoftoc{4}
\layout Standard

which may be quite busy and awkward, but it's your thesis, not mine.
 This also comes in handy in context with the 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
nopretext{}
\family default 
 option, since you can set the depth to zero and only print chapter names,
 ensuring that you don't need to scroll through a long TOC to read your
 text.
 You can also comment out the 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
tableofcontents
\family default 
 command to avoid printing it at all.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
smallitem
\family default 
 An itemize environment that is used exactly like the LaTeX 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
itemize
\family default 
, but which has smaller spaces between the text.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

This is a list with the normal 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
itemize
\family default 
 environment.
\layout Itemize

It has rather large spacing between the items.
\layout Standard

versus the 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
smallitem
\family default 
 environment
\layout Small Itemize

The 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
smallitem
\family default 
 environment
\layout Small Itemize

has smaller spaces between each item.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
smallenum
\family default 
 This is an enumerate environtment that is used exactly like the LaTeX 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
enumerate
\family default 
, but which has spacing like 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
smallitem
\family default 
.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Small Enumerate

Like the 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
smallitem
\family default 
 environtment,
\layout Small Enumerate

the 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
smallenum
\family default 
 environment
\layout Small Enumerate

is similiarly spaced.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
headingpage
\family default 
 For those using the manuscript layout, there is the possibility that you
 have published a chapter of your thesis prior to submitting it to the graduate
 school.
 These chapters require a cover page (as in the beginning of this chapter)
 stating the title of paper (this must match the chapter title exactly!),
 the authors, and the journal information.
 This page can be automagically formatted with a single command:
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
headingpage{Title}{Authors}{Journal Title}{Journal address}
\newline 
{Issue Information}
\layout Standard

where any of the fields can include a newline in the form of a LaTeX double
 slash (
\family typewriter 

\backslash 

\backslash 

\family default 
).
 This command must come before the chapter title in the document.
 For LyX users: Use the TeX entry method, which is the standard method that
 TeX/LaTeX commands are entered.
 Again, do not use 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
and
\family default 
 in the author list.
 
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
bigfloatskip
\family default 
 This is an option for setting a wider separation for floats.
 It defaults to false, but you may use
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
bigfloatskip{true}
\layout Standard

to have 42pt, vs.
 20pt spacing.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{figure}
\family default 
 Figures are placed in your document with
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
begin{figure}
\backslash 
end{figure} 
\layout Standard

This will also allow for a separate list of figures to be included in your
 Table of Context.
 If you have enough figures that you require them to be in an appendix,
 use
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
begin{afigure}
\backslash 
end{afigure}
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
listoffigures
\family default 
 This works exactly as it should.
 It puts a List of Figures, formatted just as the Table of Contents.
 To use it, place
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
listoffigures
\backslash 
clearpage
\layout Standard

immediately after the TOC.
 You can also use
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
listofappendixfigures
\backslash 
clearpage
\layout Standard

to format a list of figures that have been inserted with 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{afigure}
\family default 
.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{table}
\family default 
 This works the same as 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{figure}
\family default 
 above.
 Use 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{atable}
\family default 
 for appendix tables.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
listoftables
\family default 
 This works the same as
\family typewriter 
 
\backslash 
listoffigures
\family default 
 above.
 Use 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
listofappendixtables
\family default 
 to list appendix tables.
\layout Subsection

Line Spacing Options
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtex
\end_inset 

 uses the default LaTeX linespacing.
 The commands are 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
singlespacing
\family default 
 (this is the default), 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
onehalfspacing
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
doublespacing
\family default 
.
 In order to set your thesis in doublespace type, issue the 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
doublespacing
\family default 
 command in the preamble.
\layout Standard

When you reset the spacing, two important things will be reset.
 Your Table of Contents and your Bibliography (and index, etc.
 if you include them).
 If you want these single spaced, put them in a 
\family typewriter 
singlespacing
\family default 
 environment as so
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
begin{singlespacing}
\backslash 
tableofcontents{}
\backslash 
end{singlespacing}
\layout Standard

Likewise, for your bibliography, you would use something like
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
begin{singlespacing}
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
bibliographystyle{jawra}
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
clearpage
\backslash 
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Bibliography}
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
bibliography{bibfile}
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
end{singlespacing}
\layout Standard

Keep in mind, that you can singlespace virtually anything you want this
 way, by starting with 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
begin{singlespacing}
\family default 
 and ending with 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
end{singlespacing}
\family default 
.
 For instance:
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
begin{singlespacing}
\end_inset 


\layout Small Itemize

This is a list of items
\layout Small Itemize

with the smallitem environment.
\layout Small Itemize

and I want to make them print with single spacing
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
end{singlespacing}
\end_inset 


\layout Subsection

Controlling Page Alignment
\layout Standard

The optional pages (abstract, acknowlegements, contributors, dedication
 and preface) as well as the body of the text can be aligned as you see
 fit.
 The default is a justified body and left-aligned optional pages, but some
 users may wish to change these settings.
 
\emph on 
All page alignment settings go into the preamble.
\layout Subsubsection

Body Alignment
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
pagealignment{ALIGN}
\family default 
 Will reset the alignment of the 
\emph on 
thesis body only
\emph default 
.
 
\family typewriter 
ALIGN
\family default 
 is one of 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
raggedright
\family default 
,
\family typewriter 
 
\backslash 
raggedleft
\family default 
, or 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
centering
\family default 
.
 It is unlikely that you would use them; however, if either the graduate
 school or your department balks at a properly formatted text body, just
 use
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
pagealignment{
\backslash 
raggedright}
\layout Standard

and the result will be the older, ugly, technically incorrect, typewriter-style
 text alignment.
\end_deeper 
\layout Subsubsection

Optional Page Alignment
\layout Standard

The default alignment for the optional pages is 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
raggedright
\family default 
.
 Each of the four pages has a different suite of settings that can be controlled
, allowing you to have, for instance, a justified preface and a centered
 dedications page.
 The commands are given below, and are the exact same for each page.
 Replace 
\family typewriter 
XXX
\family default 
 with either 
\family typewriter 
ack
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
abs
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
cont
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
ded
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
pref
\family default 
 to use the command on the abstract, acknowledgements, contributors dedications
 or preface pages, respectively.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpage[start|end]
\family default 
 Use this command and its arguments will be run immediately before and after
 the text (not the title!) of the page.
 Be careful with these commands because some commands will not end when
 the page ends.
 Thus, if you 
\emph on 
only
\emph default 
 use
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
ackpagestart{
\backslash 
scshape}
\layout Standard

then all of the text from the Acknowlegements on--- throughout your entire
 thesis--- will be in 
\noun on 
small caps
\noun default 
.
 Why? Because you didn't end the command with something like 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
ackpageend{
\backslash 
upshape}
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpagestart
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpageend
\family default 
 are fairly robust, but you should still be careful using them.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpageclear
\family default 
 This command clears the settings for the page.
 
\emph on 
Using this command by itself will result in justified text.
 
\emph default 
By default, everypage has the same settings, which are
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
XXXpagestart{
\backslash 
begin{flushleft}}
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
XXXpageend{
\backslash 
end{flushleft}}
\layout Standard

Using 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpagestart
\family default 
 by itself will therefore give you an error (because the page will still
 end with 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
end{flushleft}
\family default 
.
 If you always remember to issue a 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpageclear
\family default 
 before changing any commands, and you'll be fine.
 Optionally, you can use
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
XXXpageend{}
\layout Standard

which serves to clear out the ending command as well.
\end_deeper 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpagecenter
\family default 
 This command results in the page's text being centered.
\layout Paragraph

Page-Alignment Recap
\layout Standard

Here's a recap of the alignment options for the optional pages:
\layout Small Itemize

Use nothing and the page will be left-aligned.
 This is the default.
\layout Small Itemize

Use 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpageclear
\family default 
 and the page will be justified.
 
\layout Small Itemize

Use 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpagecenter
\family default 
 and the page will be centered.
\layout Small Itemize

Use 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpagestart
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 

\backslash 
XXXpageend
\family default 
 to do something crazy.
\layout Standard

As an example, for this documentation, I used the following commands
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
ackpageclear
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
abspageclear
\layout LyX-Code


\backslash 
dedpagecenter
\layout Section


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
beavtexnospace
\end_inset 

 's Idiosyncracies and Problems
\layout Standard

With any program, various choices have to be made by the programmer.
 I've tried to limit these choices where I can.
 Still, there are a few, and I'll add options for them if I know that people
 want them changed.
\layout Subsection

Choices
\layout Standard

At some points, I've no doubt made choices without creating options so that
 the user can use to modify them.
 As people use this and complain about those choices, I will either create
 an option or note them here.
 Eventually, I may make another chapter which details the code so that people
 can modify it.
 
\layout Subsection

Problems
\layout Standard

This is mainly a list of things I need to fix.
 If there is nothing in the list, then there is nothing I know about.
\layout Comment


\begin_inset LatexCommand \BibTeX[jawra]{bibfile}

\end_inset 


\the_end
